{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl
{\f0 Calibri;}
{\f1 Georgia;}
{\f2 Consolas;}
}
{\colortbl;
\red243\green236\blue225;
\red15\green31\blue53;
\red51\green65\blue82;
\red106\green117\blue133;
\red196\green69\blue28;
\red74\green122\blue99;
\red201\green191\blue169;
\red233\green224\blue207;
}
\paperw12240\paperh15840\margl648\margr648\margt648\margb648
\viewkind4\uc1
\cb1\pard\sa180\sl300\slmult1\cf2\f1\fs56\b Three lies your flight stats are telling you\par

\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\cf3\f0\fs20\b0 Naga Pavan Sathvik Reddy Sirigiri {\cf4\f2\fs18 ·} ISM 6419: Data Visualization for Storytelling {\cf4\f2\fs18 ·} Data: U.S. Bureau of Transportation Statistics\par

\pard\sa220\sl300\slmult1\cf3\f1\i\fs26 A single average delay looks simple. This story shows why that simplicity can mislead passengers.\i0\par

\pard\sa120\sl280\slmult1\cf2\f1\fs30\b Context\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\cf3\f1\fs23\b0 This project analyzes about {\b 277,000 departures} from Tampa International Airport between 2020 and 2025, focused on American, Delta, and Southwest. Airlines usually report one average delay number, but passengers do not experience the average flight. They experience specific flights at specific times.\par

\pard\sa120\sl280\slmult1\cf2\f1\fs30\b Main Insight\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\cf3\f1\fs23\b0 The main insight is that timing explains delay risk better than airline label. Hour of day, month of year, and schedule context each change outcomes substantially. Together, these factors can multiply delay exposure.\par

\pard\sa120\sl280\slmult1\cf2\f1\fs30\b Story 1: Time of Day\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\cf3\f1\fs23\b0 At Tampa, a {\b 6 AM} departure is on time about {\b 83\%} of the time, while an {\b 8 PM} departure is about {\b 48\%} on time. Across one day, odds are nearly cut in half. This pattern appears across all three airlines, showing that departure time is a stronger driver than carrier choice in this dataset.\par

\pard\sa120\sl280\slmult1\cf2\f1\fs30\b Story 2: Why the Day Gets Worse\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\cf3\f1\fs23\b0 Delay inheritance rises through the day. Inherited-delay share is around {\b 14\%} at 6 AM and about {\b 69\%} by 8 PM. This shows that evening unreliability is often cumulative system delay, not isolated events.\par

\pard\sa120\sl280\slmult1\cf2\f1\fs30\b Story 3: Month Effects\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\cf3\f1\fs23\b0 Seasonality is strong. {\b July} averages around {\b 19 minutes} of delay, while {\b October} is around {\b 6 minutes}. {\b December} is near {\b 11.2 minutes}, close to overall average. A yearly average hides this large summer penalty.\par

\pard\sa120\sl280\slmult1\cf2\f1\fs30\b Story 4 (Postscript): Compounding\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\cf3\f1\fs23\b0 Timing effects multiply. A {\b Tuesday 6 AM} flight is around {\b 3 minutes} delay, while a {\b Sunday 8 PM} flight is around {\b 23 minutes}, about a {\cf5\b 7×\cf3\b0} difference. This confirms that one average cannot represent real passenger outcomes.\par

\pard\sa120\sl280\slmult1\cf2\f1\fs30\b Why It Matters\par
\pard\sa120\sl276\slmult1\cf3\f1\fs23\b0 The project’s takeaway is practical: when booking, timing decisions often matter more than airline branding. The average delay is not false, but it is incomplete for traveler decision-making.\par

\pard\sa200\sl300\slmult1\cf5\f1\i\fs28 Averages smooth. Stories specify.\i0\par

\pard\sa120\sl260\slmult1\cf4\f2\fs18 FIGURE PLACEHOLDER 1 — Hero + Thesis\par
\pard\sa120\sl260\slmult1\cf4\f2\fs18 FIGURE PLACEHOLDER 2 — Section I (paired hourly + cascade)\par
\pard\sa120\sl260\slmult1\cf4\f2\fs18 FIGURE PLACEHOLDER 3 — Section II (monthly)\par
\pard\sa120\sl260\slmult1\cf4\f2\fs18 FIGURE PLACEHOLDER 4 — Section III (padding)\par
\pard\sa120\sl260\slmult1\cf4\f2\fs18 FIGURE PLACEHOLDER 5 — Postscript + Compound card\par
}
